I just finished my pacific crest trail
hike and i wanted to give you a tea or
some fuel for thought for your next hike
the Pacific Crest Trail 500 miles longer
than dat 2,600 miles as opposed to a
little over 2,200 miles a little under
2,200 miles I'm sorry and goes from
Mexico to Canada goes it's mainly going
to be like more like a it's a horse
trail that horses are loud on the entire
thing unlike the 80 so they have to
grade it differently if you thought the
18 was hard and you'll think the PCT is
easy because you're not climbing
straight up mountains or anything like
that it's a gradual gradual inclines out
there it's really nice you can cover a
lot more miles a day on the 80 I was
covering 15 maybe 20 20 to 25 miles a
day on the PCT I was doing more like 20
to 35 plus depending on the terrain most
people out there going a lot lighter
weight out there too you don't have to
worry as much about rain gear out there
because it never really rains pretty
much through California it never rained
on it never rained on me a single time
in California so you can actually go
with a bivy sack you don't have to carry
a tent lots of people do that Oregon you
can kind of get into some rain up there
the snow's you walk through a lot of the
snow this year is it wasn't bad at all
though it's all compact we were actually
hiking through snow in June July August
all the whole time I was out there that
was snow but we were walking in shorts
and tshirt the whole time it's a lot
different than than out here on the East
Coast the East Coast is a lot more humid
a lot more damp air out there it's super
dry you can actually wear cotton when
you go hiking I wore a cotton button up
shirt and it was great I loved it on the
East Coast filed have done that on the
80 I would have sweated pretty bad
so if you're thinking about going out on
the PCT be sure to look up the the
annual day zero at Lake Marina in
California it's usually the third
weekend in April it's a big kick-off
party everybody comes down they have
gear companies their food camping out
music all that good stuff kind of like
trail days if you went to that but for
the PCT and everybody kind of starts
that weekend it's a super good time
super fun trail there's hostels out
there um and if you need some info about
it check out Yogi's book about the PCT
Yogi's handbook on the PCT super helpful
tells you all about town stops where
you're going to have to send mail drops
I did 16 mail drops out there because
some of the resupplies were just gas
stations in a post office and they
called that a town not not like the 80
the 80 I never did a single metal drop
out there so definitely pick her book up
it'll help you plan out your mail drops
and everything yeah that's it that's
this point is a desert house you daddy
get across that desert the desert yeah
you have to go through the Mojave there
for a bit you just have to you get a
water report when you go to the kickoff
and the water reports going to have all
the water sources and the last time
somebody was there and if it was running
you know how where where it's at it's
going to give you all the info it's like
all there it's it's not a shoot in the
dark like you would think it is but uh
i'll let you know about the CDT next so
okay um so up and now up in the mountain
you're walking mega say is pretty smooth
yeah super smooth and the Cascades how
about the rain up there I wasn't but now
they're in the fall I guess most people
there uh most people are trying to get
done by October October first is when
they're trying to get to Canada so when
you started when I started April 26 and
I finished on sep tember 20th of 2008
and you just
you just pretty much your hike in that
time of year um I personally didn't
carry one so that was actually illegal
but my canister it's just the beer can
get ahold of it but he can't get in it
exactly yeah he can bash it on rocks and
everything but he can't open it so you
don't have to hang you just keep it away
from inside yup yep pretty much man what
else did you do to keep deal with the
Grizzlies well there actually are no
Grizzlies on the PCT oh there's a
there's their black bears but they look
Brown there's cinnamon colored
blackberry I see and they're bigger than
the ones you're going to see on the 80 I
saw about twice as many bears on the PCT
that I saw in the 80 only saw about
eight bears on the 80 and I saw about 16
to 20 on the PCT but they don't have the
aggressiveness of grizzly no they're
just like the ones on the 80 you'll see
you know they here yeah they run away
pretty much not there they're cowards
just like the rest of the black bears so
great yeah yeah if if you want any more
have any more questions about it you get
in touch with us at mountain crossings
calm and help you answer some questions
about packing for the PCT ok screw thank
you very much yeah probably that was
perfect
you